This video will briefly go over the C++ main function every C++ program must have exactly one main function
somewhere a C++ program can consist of hundreds of files.
But one of those files must contain the main function.
Note that the named main must be written in lower case letters.
When a C++ program executes the main function is called by the operating system and the code between
the curly braces executes when execution hits the return statement the program returns the integer value
to the operating system.
If the return value is 0 then the program terminated successfully if the return value is not 0.
Then the operating system can check the value returned and determined what went wrong.
There are two versions of Main and they're both valid as per the C++ specification.
So far we've only seen the version on the left which returns an integer and has nothing between the
two parentheses.
This version of main expects no information from the operating system in order to run.
This is the version that will use mostly in this course.
The second version of Main is the one on the right that is version main expects information from the
operating system.
So suppose that when you execute the program you need to pass information into the program from the
command line.
This is very very common for command line applications.
In this case we tell the compiler that we need two pieces of information.
First we need the number of pieces of information that were passed in.
That's Argosy we can use any variable name here but historically we use args C which stands for argument
count.
The second piece of information is the actual arguments that we passed in into the program.
This is captured by arger V which is the argument vector.
The syntax for R V looks a little strange but it all makes sense as the course progresses.
It's basically a bunch of strings such as programs that DXi argument one argument to in this example.
We'll talk more about strings and vectors as we move forward.
But I wanted to show you both versions of the main function.
In case you're looking at code out there you see the second version.
Both are perfectly valid and both are commonly seen.
Note that main must always return an integer.
Main happens to be an example of a function.
A function is basically a name that we can use to reference a block of code.
In this example maned is everything between the curly braces.
Functions are very commonly used and will write her own functions as the course progresses.
There'll be an entire section of the course devoted to functions but Maine is a very special function
as we learn C++.
Our entire program will be contained inside the main function and as our programs become more complex
we'll write our own functions and then classes to better modularize and organize our code in the next
video.
We'll talk about name spaces and see how we can use them in our first program.